Docs 7546 ch continuous patching policy hn (#309)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/cloudhub-app-runtime-version-updates.adoc

image:logo-rtf-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-runtime-fabric", title="Runtime Fabric"]

Because CloudHub is an integration platform as a service (iPaaS), 

> the platform manages patches and updates to the operating system and Mule runtime engine,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the platform manages the patching of operating system and Mule runtime engine,
```

enabling you to focus on developing and updating your applications.

CloudHub applies security patches as needed to ensure that your application is secure. 
Once per month, CloudHub updates Mule to maintain the stability of your application.

> All patches and updates use blue-green deployment, which ensures zero downtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Patching updates use blue-green deployment, which ensures zero downtime.
```

== Security Updates 

> 

Reviewer: please remove Salesforce before the term SLA

image:logo-rtf-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-runtime-fabric", title="Runtime Fabric"]

To ensure the security and stability of CloudHub, MuleSoft releases security updates
and monthly patches and applies them automatically on a schedule.

> Automatic updates use blue-green deployment, which ensures zero downtime.

Reviewer: @hannanelson Can we change this to something like below, (i am not sure about the tense and refer to the customer as you):
CloudHub is an integration platform as a service (iPaaS), which means that the patch and upgrades of the OS and the mule software are managed for you by the platform. This means you can focus on developing and updating the application functionality.

CloudHub applies security patching to ensure your application is secure. CloudHub applies monthly mule updates to ensure you application continues to be stable. All patching and updates use blue-green deployment, which ensures zero downtime.

== Security Updates 

MuleSoft regularly runs scans to identify security vulnerabilities in Mule runtime engine, JVM,
and the underlying operating system, and then automatically applies security patches based on the following Salesforce SLA:

[%header,cols="20,25,40"]
|===
|Severity Level | Severity Definition | Patch Applied Within 
|P0 | Critical | 7 days
|P1 | High | 30 days
|===

> To minimize disruption, the monthly date patch update always includes patches for any P1 security issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To minimize disruption, the monthly date patch update always includes patches for any P1 security issues.
```
please remove this statement. We can add it in the patching section where the date patch has been introduced

> P0 security patches might be included in the monthly update or released separately, depending on the SLA requirements.

Reviewer: please remove this statement as well.

== Monthly Date Patch Updates 

Once per month, MuleSoft releases a _date patch_ update, 
which includes backward-compatible bug fixes to address any issues discovered in Mule runtime engine.

> The monthly date patch update might also include security patches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The monthly date patch update might include security patches when the monthly update is within the security SLA.
```

The format of the version number for these updates is:

_Major_._Minor_._Patch_ - _Date_ 

Here's an example version number, including the patch date:

`4.2.2 - 05-04-2020`

=== Update Schedule 

The schedule for date patch updates is:

> * First Monday of the month, MuleSoft releases the patch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* MuleSoft releases patches in the first full week of the month.
```

+

> You can apply the update manually or let MuleSoft apply the patch automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-```
remove this line here

Author: But then the link makes no sense.

+
See <<Update the Runtime Version Manually>>

> * Third Saturday of the month, MuleSoft automatically applies the patch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the third week of the month, MuleSoft automatically applies the date patch released in the first week of the month. Updates are only to bring applications to the latest date patch of the patch version the application is on.
```
Please feel free to adjust the language as required.

Author: Yeah, that doesn't make sense, but I sort of understand.

Author: See if my change works.

+
When an automatic update occurs, the audit log for your app contains an entry by user `Anypoint Staff`,
which shows the date and time an update occurred and whether it was successful.
+
If the update is successful, no action is required.
See <<Zero-Downtime Restart Limitations>>.

For the schedule of upcoming releases, see <link that has the dates>.

[NOTE]
You must have an Enterprise support account to view the release schedule.

> 

Reviewer: We can introduce the option to take these options themselves here.
"If the 3rd week of the month is not suitable or your application requires manual updates due to zero-downtime limitations <link to the zero-downtime section>, please see the sections below"

Author: Oops, didn't see this before. Will add.

image:logo-rtf-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-runtime-fabric", title="Runtime Fabric"]

Because CloudHub is an integration platform as a service (iPaaS), 

> the platform manages patching of the operating system and Mule runtime engine,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
it manages operating system and Mule runtime engine patching,
```

enabling you to focus on developing and updating your applications.

CloudHub applies security patches as needed to ensure that your application is secure. 

> Once per month, CloudHub updates Mule to maintain the stability of your application.

Reviewer 2: This is strictly a thing that sounds better to my ear (as did "it" above, even though writers are always being nagged about unclear antecedents; in fact, I am tempted to repeat "It" here):

"CloudHub applies security patches as needed to ensure that your application is secure, and 
once per month, it updates Mule to maintain the stability of your application."

It's sort of a running-list, single thought kinda' thing: CloudHub manages patching so that you don't have to, including patches to secure your app and updates to maintain app stability.

Reviewer 2: Also, you *could* use something this brief, because the following subtopics cover each advantage in detail.
BUT IT IS FINE AS-IS.

Patch updates use blue-green deployment, which ensures zero downtime.

== Security Updates 

MuleSoft regularly runs scans to identify security vulnerabilities in Mule runtime engine, JVM,

> and the underlying operating system, and then automatically applies security patches based on the following SLA:

Reviewer 2: Perfect context for ", and then".
I have noticed that this is much smoother now, this "then" thing: we have come to accord!

Author: HAH! I search for ", and then" and eradicate!

[%header,cols="20,25,40"]
|===
|Severity Level | Severity Definition | Patch Applied Within 
|P0 | Critical | 7 days
|P1 | High | 30 days
|===

== Monthly Date Patch Updates 

> Once per month, MuleSoft releases a _date patch_ update, 

Reviewer 2: I looked this up for other contexts, but could not find it used as a compound adjective: do you suppose we should present it as "a date-patch update"? Let me know, because I will add it to the Term Pres. List.

Author: Yes. I think so.

which includes backward-compatible bug fixes to address any issues discovered in Mule runtime engine.
The monthly date patch update might include security patches if the scheduled date is within the security SLA.

The format of the version number for these updates is:

_Major_._Minor_._Patch_ - _Date_ 

Here's an example version number, including the patch date:

`4.2.2 - 05-04-2020`

> The monthly patches only update applications to the latest date patch for the patch version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The monthly patches update applications only to the latest date patch for the patch version.
```

They do not change the patch version number.

=== Update Schedule 

The schedule for date patch updates is:

* In the first full week of the month, MuleSoft releases the date patch.

> * In the third week of the month, MuleSoft automatically applies the date patch that was released in the first week of the month.

Reviewer 2: Will anyone question what the third week is, if the month begins with a partial week and we just referred to the "first full week"?

Author: Should we say "third full week"?

+

> Applications in environments other than Production are updated during the week.

Reviewer 2: Per Term Presentation List, GLOBALLY lowercase environment types, even if they are also names:
```suggestion
Applications in environments other than production are updated during the week.
```

Production applications are updated on the weekend.
+
When an automatic update occurs, the audit log for your app contains an entry by user `Anypoint Staff`,
which shows the date and time an update occurred and whether it was successful.
+
If the update is successful, no action is required.
See <<Zero-Downtime Restart Limitations>>.

> 

Reviewer 2: Why all the space?

Author: It doesn't change the formatting and makes it easier to author...

If your application does not support zero-downtime updates or requires a manual update,

> you can apply the date patch released in the first week of the month in week 1 or week 2. 

Reviewer 2: Do we have to clarify all the "first-full" folderol here as well?

See <<Update the Runtime Version Manually>>.

To update multiple applications, use the CloudHub API.
See <<Update Multiple Apps to the Latest Runtime Release>>.

=== Updates Available 

When a new runtime version is available:

* The *Applications* page displays a banner and the *Update Available* tab lists the apps that require updates:
+
.The screenshot shows (*1*) the banner and (*2*) the *Update Available* tab on the *Applications* page.
image::cloudhub-app-update-req-page.png[Applications page with banner and Update Available tab]
+
If no apps require updates, no banner appears and the *Update Available* tab is empty.

*  *Update available* and the new date patch appear in the *Runtime version* menu in the *Settings* page for the application:
+
.The screenshot shows (*1*) the date patch version update and (*2*) *Update available* in the *Runtime version* menu.
image::cloudhub-app-update-versions.png[Date patch version update and Update available in the Runtime version menu.]

MuleSoft applies the monthly updates automatically, based on the published schedule. 
If you want, you can update them manually at your convenience.

> == Update the Runtime Version Manually 

Reviewer 2: Just checking: this is intended as a peer topic of monthly date patch updates, which has subtopics for scheduled and available updates?
(I wonder if "available" should be "unscheduled" or "periodic"?)

Author: No - it's meant to describe what happens when updates are available.

The *Update Available* tab indicates that one or more apps require a runtime version update.
You can schedule the update to occur at your convenience.

> Before updating apps in the Production environment, update them in the Sandbox environment and run required tests.

Reviewer 2: ditto GLOBAL
```suggestion
Before updating apps in the production environment, update them in the sandbox environment and run required tests.
```

The monthly date patch update might include security patches if the scheduled date is within the security SLA.

The format of the version number for these updates is:

_Major_._Minor_._Patch_ - _Date_ 

Here's an example version number, including the patch date:

`4.2.2 - 05-04-2020`

The monthly patches only update applications to the latest date patch for the patch version.
They do not change the patch version number.

=== Update Schedule 

The schedule for date patch updates is:

* In the first full week of the month, MuleSoft releases the date patch.
* In the third week of the month, MuleSoft automatically applies the date patch that was released in the first week of the month.
+
Applications in environments other than Production are updated during the week.
Production applications are updated on the weekend.
+
When an automatic update occurs, the audit log for your app contains an entry by user `Anypoint Staff`,
which shows the date and time an update occurred and whether it was successful.
+
If the update is successful, no action is required.
See <<Zero-Downtime Restart Limitations>>.

> For the schedule of upcoming releases, see <link that has the dates>.

Reviewer: Could we please remove this line and the note below for now...we can add it when we have the page

`4.2.2 - 05-04-2020`

The monthly patches only update applications to the latest date patch for the patch version.
They do not change the patch version number.

=== Update Schedule 

The schedule for date patch updates is:

* In the first full week of the month, MuleSoft releases the date patch.

> * In the third week of the month, MuleSoft automatically applies the date patch that was released in the first week of the month.

Reviewer: Could we please add a line:
Non-Prod applications will be updated during the week and Production applications will be updated during the weekend.

[NOTE]
You must have an Enterprise support account to view the release schedule.

You might need to update your applications manually, for example:

* The automatic update schedule doesn't work in your organization.

> * Your application doesn't support zero-downtime updates. 

Reviewer: Can we change the above 3 lines to something like this:

If your application does not support zero-downtime updates or requires a manual update for any reason, the date patch released in the first week of the month can be taken manually in week 1 or week 2 by following the instructions in " Update the Runtime Version Manually". If you have several applications to update at a time, the bulk api can be used for your update <link to Update Multiple Apps to the Latest Runtime
Release>

If the app update was unsuccessful, the app remains in the *Update Available* tab.
In this case, the app continues to run correctly on the previous runtime version and no action is required.

> == Update Multiple Apps to the Latest Runtime Release 

Reviewer 2: Also a peer of monthly date patch updates and manual runtime version updates? Or is this actually subordinate to manual runtime version updates?

Author: Made both subsections to a new == level.

Although the Runtime Manager UI doesn't support updating multiple apps to the latest runtime version, 
you can use the CloudHub API to perform a bulk update. 
See https://help.mulesoft.com/s/article/How-to-Perform-a-Bulk-CloudHub-Application-Update-to-the-Latest-Runtime-Releases-Using-a-Unix-Shell-Script[How to Perform a Bulk CloudHub Application Update to the Latest Runtime Releases].

== Zero-Downtime Restart Limitations

Zero-downtime restarts don't work in the following cases:

* The CloudHub application is a durable subscriber.
+
In this case, only one unique subscriber can be active at a time. 

> For these applications, you must manually stop and start the application to take the latest update.

Reviewer 2: "take" the update?

* The CloudHub application connects to an external dependency that is unavailable, unresponsive, or requires warmup.
+
In this case, CloudHub waits up to three minutes for the application to connect to any dependencies before assigning the application domain and related static IP addresses (if used) to the new version of the application.

If either case applies to your application, contact Support and your CSM account representative for information about updating the application to be cloud-ready.

== See Also 

* https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/cloudhub-api/[CloudHub API Portal]

> * xref:cloudhub-architecture.adoc#zero-downtime-updates[Zero Downtime Updates]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* xref:cloudhub-architecture.adoc#zero-downtime-updates[Zero-Downtime Updates]
```
